- [Instructors] Let us now talk about
the advantages of the benefits
of the Generics concept.
The first one is compile and runtime protection.
We know now that Generics always will do
the type safety checks
at the compilation stage itself.
These type safe checks will then avoid
all the potential problems
that you encounter at runtime.
So it gives you compile and runtime protection.
Secondly, you do not have to do any kind
of explicit casting
in order to process your values
inside the Generics code.
The compiler will do that implicit casting
for you.
This essentially means that you do not introduce
any kind of clutter,
and your code is always clean and robust.
Lastly, Generics have a way to define operations
that can be performed
on a varied number of types.
This essentially will give you a chance
to develop generic algorithms.
Generics is a very powerful feature
in the Java language.
Ensure that you always write your code
with Generics.